First a word about net
app net app gives developers
common tools across to any
environment and any cloud. If
you have a cloud first
mandate for your new application,
then you need to know
about the new Microsoft service
for the Azure portal built
by net app Azure net
app files is the only
Azure offering that lets you
build your Linux file share
environment in the cloud without
needing a specialist to create
the environment for you. Take
control of your world with
Azure net app files, to
read more, including the blog
from solution architect, Steve Collins,
go to blog.net app.com. That's
blog.net app.com and search for
Azure net app files.
Some of this is another
episode of Hansel minutes. And
today I'm talking with Kent
Beck, he's an original signer
of the agile manifesto, the
author of the whole extreme
programming book series and old
great keynote speaker that I've
seen all over. Thanks for
chatting with me, sir. Oh,
thank you very much, Scott.
It's a pleasure to be
here. So you've been around
in software for a long
time and I first learned
about you and I was
applying extreme programming concepts to
banking like 20 years ago,
but you're still, you're still
keeping it fresh. You're coming
up with new ways to
think about software because you're
actually still building software, right?
You're not just talking about
it. Know I do as
much of it as I
can. I spend a fair
amount of my time talking
to people who are doing
it, but yeah, the, the,
I don't figure I've had
my last idea yet. I
appreciate that. I find that
when I talk to companies
that even though it's 2018
and I've been thinking about,
and applying the concepts that,
that you introduced for almost
20 years, that's still people
aren't convinced that being agile,
iterating, doing small commits, like
all the stuff we take
for granted, they're still debating
in the middle part of
the 21st. Yeah. It's a
surprise to me. And there's
even a revival of the
waterfall, which, which really shocked
me. I thought we killed
that monster once and for
all, but it turns out
that even smart people are
seduced by the idea that
you just have to figure
out exactly what you're going
to do and then go
do it. And then you're
done and all it still
doesn't work for all those
same reasons. It didn't work
before. But the, the, the
attractiveness of that as a
model is hasn't, hasn't waned
in the fact that it
doesn't work. Doesn't seem to
affect that. It seems like
as we are noticing in
the world right now that
a lot of things are
driven by fear that a
lot of things in software
are driven by fear of
the system, right? Like the
whole dev ops movement is
just don't anger. The machine
like don't bother it. Like
it works. So we should
put together systems by which
we could fear our software
less. Well, that's a, a
fairly negative way to put
it. I would say something
like a dev ops is
aligning authority and responsibility. If
you can break it, then
you need to be the
one who fixes it. I
like that. So empowering everyone.
Yes. And certainly part of
that is the reduction of,
of fear. I maybe 10
years back, I figured out,
I looked back over my
career to what does all
this add up to? And
I realized that my personal
mission is to help geeks
feel safe in the world.
Part of that is actually
being safe. That is to
say, not making changes to
software that disrupts other people's
lives. And that seems to
be a challenge. But there
are, as you said that
you, you listed the techniques
that, that go a long
way toward reducing the probability
that you're going to make.
One of those errors. I
liked that I liked the
way that you flipped, what
was a negative way of
looking at something fear-based and
turning it into a, a
good feeling of one of
safety and comfort. Yeah, it's
a habit. A habit of
mine didn't come naturally at
first, but I've been practicing
that for, for some time.
And as you're coming up
with these different ways to
think about programming and different
things, ways to think about
workflow, you've got this great
article up on medium called
test and commit that then
became test commit or revert.
What's the story there? Well,
for some time now I've
worked where the, if my
tests pass, then I want
to make a commit because
the, the sunk cost fallacy
is, is the programmers. I'm
not going to say worst
nightmare, but it's definitely in
the top 10 where you'll
you'll make a change and
it doesn't work. So you'll
make another change and it
still doesn't work. And the
more changes you make, the
greater, the investment you've you've
made in this initial false
change you made. And so
you can go days, weeks,
sometimes an entire career following
up on that initial mistake.
So I want to make
it really cheap to get
back to a known state,
to fight against that sunk
cost fallacy. So every time
the tests pass, I want
to make a commit. So
if there's ever a problem
and I feel myself, the
swirling down that drain, I
can just revert to that
last known green state. And
then I can move moving
forward again. So I was
showing this to a group
in, in Norway, maybe a
month, a month and a
half ago. And odd man
stroma was one of the
students. He said, well, by
symmetry and I'm sucker for
symmetry. He said, by symmetry,
if you commit, when the
tests pass, you should just
revert your changes. If the
tests fail. Now, I thought
that is a stupid idea.
This I'm an eight because
just gonna make some little
mistake and all the code
that I typed is just
going to disappear and that
it would be horrible. So
I hate this idea so
much. I need to try
it. If, you know, if
you, if you only try
good ideas, you end up
not making much progress. If
you, if you find a
bad idea that's cheap to
experiment with and it works
out, then you've got an
awesome idea. Cause, cause nobody's
stupid enough to compete with
you. So this was one,
definitely one of those. So
we gave it a shot
for a week and discovered
yes, there is an, an
annoying moment. When you think
you've made a brilliant change
to your code and then
poof, it all disappears. But
w what this test commit
revert workflow does is the
tests are always green and
the incentives are to make
smaller changes. So if I
need to change two things,
I write a new test.
I need to change two
things in order to get
that test to pass. I
have a strong incentive to
figure out some way to
make one change first in
a stable way. And then
another change afterwards, also in
a stable way. So TCR
this test commit revert workflow
pushes me to make many
more, many smaller changes. Does
it push you to make
even more, more tests than
you might ordinarily? I wouldn't
say more tests. I think
I haven't noticed that kind
of effect. The, the main
effect is, is, is just
if I'm going to, if
I'm going to make a
substantial change, like three whole
lines of code at once,
I really want to find
some way to change two
of those lines first. And
then one line after that.
Because if I, if I
type in three whole lines
of code and it doesn't
pass, then poof, they disappear
and I have to figure
out what went wrong and
type them in again. And
I don't like that. So
I wanna, I'm gonna press
myself really hard. And the
surprising thing is it feels
so good solving that puzzle
that not just what should
the code look like, but
how am I gonna get
to that code in small,
safe steps that the light
bulb, where you say, Oh,
I see I changed the
third line first. And then
I changed the first two
lines that that's a great
feeling. And I think a
lot of programmers are driven
by that feeling when there's
some pattern you're looking for
and you find it in
there just feels fantastic. Interesting.
Getting back a little bit
bit at the beginning, when
you said the sunk cost
fallacy, like people have this
idea that they don't want
to waste resources. They don't
want to waste code. They
don't want to waste work.
It's, it's fundamentally loss, aversion.
I don't want to work
for an hour. And you're
saying I shouldn't work for
an hour. I should work
for minutes, or I should
think a lot harder a
second, Steven. Yes. And so
the, the thought goes into
the sequencing of the changes
in a safe way. There's
a greater expense to every
step that you take, but
there's a lower probability that
you're going to do a
bunch of work and have
to throw it away. And
depending on how that trade
off comes out, that that
will, or won't pay off.
I wonder if I would
find myself in a kind
of an analysis paralysis. If
I continue this all the
way through, it's kind of
like ridiculous, extreme, or We
should just try it out
for a little while. Just
we'll find some toy project.
I don't know that this
isn't a challenge to you,
but I hate the idea.
I'm going to have to
try it if it's an
offer. And if you'd like,
like we could do a
screen cast, share a screen
program in this way for
an hour and just see
how it feels. That's a
great idea. In fact, I
do things like this fun
experiments with real software using
the website that this podcast
is based on, which has
some tests, both regular unit
tests and all the way
up to selenium tests as
well. So there's a bit
of a, of a net
there as well. Yeah. Nice.
Okay. So test and commit
or revert. And how does
TDD relate to TCR? Is
this an a, is this
a, an evolution? Is this
a partner? Well, this has
been a, there's been a
bit of a kerfuffle on,
on Twitter lately about is
this just TDD or something,
something quite different. And people
seem to be quite upset
about it. And I call
it an alternative workflow in
the same way that test
after is another alternative workflow.
You can write a bunch
of code and then write
tests to cover it in
bits and pieces. You can
write the tests one at
a time interleaved with the
implementation that's TDD, or you
can work in this TCR
style where the tests are
always green and you work
hard to keep that true,
because if they're ever not
green, you're do whatever changes
you made are just going
in a bit Bitbucket. I
call it an alternative workflow.
The incentives absolutely change from
TDD. The way that I'm
pushed to think in a
different direction, in the same
way, that the way I'm
pushed to think when I'm
working TDD is that those
incentives are different than the
incentives. If I'm going to
test after Interesting, this makes
me think about when, when
people around and argue about
get workflows and someone says,
Oh, no, you use get
flow. And like, no Linus
uses it this way. And
they argue about all the
little details. The fact is
that good is this platform
that we have, and you're
welcome to put whatever workflow
that makes you happy and
makes you feel productive and
makes you feel safe on
top of that. But to
argue that there's one true
workflow seems like a waste
of keystrokes. Yeah, absolutely. Well,
one of the, one of
the criticisms of TCR is
that if you use get
as your version control system,
your commits look very, very
different than the commits that
you would, right? If you
were in a TDD style
or a test after style,
you have these many, many
teensy weensy commits. I did
the first public workshop on
TCR last night in San
Francisco. And we had a
little toy problem just to
Fibonacci. And the, I think
the most commits someone had
was 25 commits to write
maybe 12 lines of code
and tests. So that's, those
commits are gonna look, look
very different. It doesn't mean
it's a, I would call
it even a little bit
of an abusive get to
do that, but because you're
using it in a style
that it's not really intended,
but it works just fine
for it. But you you're
just going to end up
with a difference set of
commits than you would. If,
if you worked with a
different workflow that has different
incentives, It wasn't the whole
argument that we can squash
commits and pretend that none
of that ever happened. Well,
you can't, you, you absolutely
can squash to mince. The
next extension of this idea
is a something I call
limbo, where if you have
a bunch of people working
on the same code base,
and they're working in this
always green TCR style, and
they're constantly pushing their changes
and then pulling the changes
other people have made, you're
going to have a interleaved
sets of these tsetse tiny
changes. And then the get
commenced don't look anything like
what they look in a,
in a code review merge
kind of style, even, even
with a, even without branches.
But to me, that's not
a criticism. It just said,
Oh, this was a natural
consequence of change. You change
the incentives, you get different
results. All right. Well, yes.
The gamification of work and
programming itself. Yes. So then
you want the diffs to
be as small as possible
to presumably remove friction around
the things that are all
implied. Once someone makes a
diff because like, I've got
two poll requests right now,
one's a spelling mistake. And
one is a completely new
feature, but they both require
reviews and approvals and workflow.
Right? What I noticed, I
was at Facebook for seven
years until early this year.
And I watched the team,
the engineering team grow from
seven to 5,000 people. And
I posed myself the question,
what would it take to
go to the next order
of magnitude of engineers? I
looked at all of the
overhead created by this asynchronous
blocking code review style, this
pull requests style. And I,
I just don't see the
overhead of that grows as
the team size grows. And
I don't see how that
works at the same time.
Everybody acknowledges that small diffs
are better. So that's where
the, the, the name limbo
comes from a friend of
mine. A Sourav Patrick came
up with that name because
the limbo song X asks
you, how low can you
go? How small could we
make diffs? If you can
make diffs, TT, tiny and
safe, then you don't have
to review them beforehand. Doesn't
mean they don't get reviewed,
but you don't have to,
it doesn't have to be
a blocker to those diffs
being applied in other developer
machines. And for that matter
in production, if they're, if
they're truly safe, if you
can do that, then you
open up a brave new
style of software collaboration, where
everybody's making a stream of
TNC, tiny DIFs. Doesn't that
mean that theoretically, if something
did go wrong, there would
be, you'd spend a lot
more time kind of figuring
out like playing whack-a-mole with
all of these disks, trying
to figure out which one
broke the system. Yeah. Potentially
as with all the really
powerful ideas, this is clearly
an impractical and impossible to
do, except if you can
make it practical, then it
becomes really interesting. Well, that's
the thing, right? Like it's
a totally insane idea until
it's like, wow, that's a
really great idea. We should
all be doing that right
away. Yes. Yes. And then
it takes them 20 or
30 years for people to
actually apply it. Right. Interesting.
I, you know, there there's,
there's people try to impose
flows, whether they be on
large teams or just myself,
where if someone says I
do pull requests to myself
and everyone should do pull
request to myself, well, I
don't know about you, but
I personally sometimes just say,
Oh, I'm going to fix
that. I'll commit it directly
to master my test pass,
boom, I'll publish it right
away. And I'll, it's in
production. And you know, if
something went wrong, I'll hit
the Oh crap button and
I'll revert it. As soon
as I noticed something went
wrong and I don't feel
bad about that. No, I
don't. Nor do I, life
is, life is too short.
You know, it's human life
is, is now somewhere in
the region of 3 billion seconds
is 92 years. So I've
already spent two thirds of
mine. And I don't have
time to mess around with,
with overhead that doesn't create
value. So You think that
someone should sort of apply
this? You said like the
small things, you, you did
the test commit, revert as
a, you know, pick up
small project. It can't hurt
to try. Right? Right. You
think limbo is still too,
too out there to support
someone to apply to a
large, I think it would
take work and a certain
amount of a appetite for
chaos. You're going to be
encountering problems. You've never encountered
before. And when they show
up, you're going to need
to first become aware of
the problem and then to
be prepared, to take a
step back and, and solve
the problem at its root
cause instead of just trying
to patch over it. But
given the experiments that I've
done, I think that it's,
it's an idea that could
be applied immediately. If somebody
wanted to, to give it
a shot, Hey friends, if
you're like me and you
love your Nintendo switch, you
know, for, at home or
on the go gaming Angela
podcasts, which I assume you
do, because you're listening to
this one right now that
I have a podcast recommendation
for you. Check it out.
It's Nintendo dispatch. Nintendo dispatch
is by my good friend,
James Monte Magno and his
longtime friend, Michael, there are
two complete Nintendo fan boys.
Now each week, James and
Michael, they break down the
latest Nintendo news. The latest
game releases the happenings, the
reviews in the world of
Nintendo. They review everything that
they've been playing to subscribe.
Please go search for Nintendo
dispatch in your podcast app,
or go directly to Nintendo
dispatch.com. I love supporting other
podcasts. And I would really
encourage you to go and
support Nintendo dispatch.com and maybe
tweet about it. What do
you think that if we
think about what we very
first started the opening of
this show, that there are
people in 2018 that are
still not sold on what
we think our ideas two
decades in the, in the
baking, what should they do
when we're, they're all thinking
about maybe TDD and we're
off looking at TCR in
limbo and beyond. Should they
just jump over it all?
Or do they have to
go in the linear vector
and follow us behind What
a great question. So one
question like this, I'm going
to have to fall back
on first principles. So one
of my principles is that
everybody's responsible for their own
learning. So if somebody came
to me and said, what
should I do? I'd say,
you're, you're going to have
to manage this first. Is
there a problem like maybe,
maybe working in the style
you're working now is just
fine for you just find
for your colleagues, just find
for your company. And you're
not one of these crazy
people who needs to try
the latest and greatest thing.
In which case don't do
anything about it. You know,
like it's not a problem.
Don't solve it, given that
you want to try it
out. I think there are
some steps that consistently helped
me being in, in as
part of a community is
helpful. Teaching other people is
always helpful with, with new
skills. The only way to
get good at describing an
idea is to be bad
at describing the idea first.
And you just go through
those iterations with a forgiving
audience and eventually your presentation
of it will get much,
much smoother. The first time
I described TCR took me
an hour. I can give
you the same information now
in 10 minutes, but there
was no way to predict
which parts of that hour
were useful in which parts
weren't until it actually tried.
It looked at the, my
listener in the, I saw
where they glazed over, saw
where I was just wrong,
figured out which stories are
going to be helpful for
people. When's the right time
to jump into that example
and just show them what
to do. So different people
are going to learn that
in different ways, but community
and teaching and just diving
in and doing some stuff.
But those are the, the
strongest techniques that I know
to, to learn quickly. One
of the things that I
find most interesting about all
of this, whether it be
TCR, limbo and beyond is
the, that fun question, you
know, but does it scale
it's, we've all had that
experience where we had several
hundred or several thousand, or
maybe even more tests and
we change one thing, and
then we're looking at a
screen full of red. And
then you start thinking about
the Cartesian product of the
number of programmers, times the
number of tests times the
number of failed builds. And
it just gets overwhelming when
we break one test and
how they're all dependent on
each other. It seems like
once I get into a
couple of hundred tests, I'm
looking at a list of
tests, but I'm wondering how
they're interrelated and why one
went red and that caused
another a hundred to go
red. Every time I've been
in that situation, I didn't
really have a testing problem.
I had a design problem.
There was, there was some
part of the system that
wasn't pulled apart into sub
elements in such a way
that I could easily compose
the elements to get the,
to get the right answer.
Instead, there was an assumption
that was spread around. I
make one change that changes
that assumption. And if, if
that assumption is embodied in
some way by many tests
than, yeah, I'm going to
get a whole bunch of
tests breaking, but that's, it's
not a testing problem. It's
a design problem That is
really, really helpful. So then
if I start bringing more
people into that system and
they start making tiny changes,
they're all going to have
that problem as well. I
need to solve that design
problem before I go and
impose a new style of
work, like limbo on, on
my, my team, Or you
could use limbo to begin
making improvements together on the
design. So I see there's
two, two barriers to doing
a better job of designing
software. One is lack of
skill or idea. So I've
had design problems in software
that, that sit there for
a year. I mean, I
think my, my record is
12 years where I just
didn't like the way this
something was designed, but I
just didn't know what else
to do. If that's the
case, then you do have
to find a way of
working productively with a design.
That's not as good as
you wish it was. The
other part is that habit
of rolling your chair back
and saying, this is changing.
One more line of code
is not the most effective
way to address this problem.
I need to say, why
is this happening? What is
the design that would make
this problem? Just go away
entirely. How can I get
from where I am now
to that new design in
small, safe steps that allows
me to continue delivering functionality
all along the way. That's
a hard problem to solve
this, a lot of constraints
and it can seem overwhelming,
but at some point it's
better than the alternative of
just writing another line of
code and another line of
code and throwing in another
conditional and adding another case
statement and making big messes
even bigger. Yeah. Interesting. You
know, in, in animation they'll
draw key frames and then
they would do a thing
called onion skinning, where they
would, you know, do the
frame, the interpolation of the
frames between the two frames.
And when you said that,
you know, I'm, I'm in
a certain state, you know,
state a and like my
software, my design is such
that it's in this state
and then I can come
up with one part of
the problem, which is all
right. I know where I
need to go. The part
that I just realized you
described it so difficult as
the onion scanning, it's the,
okay, I've got two key
frames. How do I get
from this frame to that
frame and have it look
fluid and not hurt anyone
and bother the viewer. Yeah.
And, and there is a
skill to that, and it's
not a skill that we
teach or that we study.
I call it the succession
problem. What is the succession
of changes that lets us
get from point a to
point B one with safety
and secondarily as efficiently as
possible, the temptation is just
start working on that the,
the, the second state, you
know, and, and we've all
seen that little, well, we're,
we'll replace the whole system.
And then you have Xenos
project management paradox, where the
closer you get the, the
more the, the target system
recedes and you never actually
catch up. So that's the
one that's really hard to
pull off compared to. All
right, well, what, what one
thing can I do now?
That's a little bit more
like where I want to
go than where I am
and how can I use
the information gained and taking
that step to take the
next step and the next
step and the next step,
the result of that is
going to be kind of
messy. You know, so you're
going to be in this
awkward halfway in between where
maybe you have the old
implementation and the new implementation
coexisting at the same time,
but at least you're making
progress towards a state that
you know, is going to
be better. You can continue
delivering value as you do
it. And you don't have
this risk that you think
that you get to the
new state and discover it's
not actually what you wanted.
I do talks on being
a web developer where I
sit down and I theorize,
what if I were going
to teach someone how to
become a web developer today
with the explicit goal that
we ignore the last 20
years and nested tables and
one pixel gifts and all
the bad things about the
web as it grew over
the last 20 years, how
would you teach us, you
know, a 15 year old
or a bunch of high
school students about how to
make software today? Would you
ignore the history or would
you spend a lot of
time giving them historical context?
That's a, that's a good
question. I don't think I
have any particular skill at
teaching beginners. Hmm. I think
I spent much of my
career at Facebook coaching engineers
at all levels from fairly
junior to some of the
most senior engineers at Facebook.
And I think I have
a decent handle on how
to help people who are
engineers get better, but I
I'm, I'm not the person
to walk into a room
full of 15 year olds
and say, Oh, okay, let's
do hello world. Right. Well,
the reason I ask is
that as I, as I
enter the downhill, kind of
like I pass the hump
of my career and going
down the other side, We
call it the accelerating portion
of your career. Oh, is
that what we call in
right directly into the grave?
I'm applying that to that
positivity here, Scott downhill downhill
sounds the negative to me
Is also a pretty negative
Who doesn't want to accelerate
now that you're accelerating in
the acceleration portion or your
careers. Okay. Okay. So now
that I'm in that, in
the acceleration portion of my
career and going back and
forth about whether or not
I ignore history and try
to teach them fresh perspectives
and modern techniques, or whether
or not, as they say,
you know, those that fail
to learn history are doomed
to repeat it because you
know that you and I
will retire and someone will
go and invent, you know,
extreme programming. Yeah. Oh, absolutely.
And the waterfall over in
Oregon Or a Scrummerfall, which
is nice. Oh, ah, watch
your mouth. That, yeah, it,
it is going to come
around. I I'm old enough
to have, and I grew
up in Silicon Valley and
my dad was a programmer.
So I'm old enough to
have seen some of that
history happen. I've always liked
knowing the whole stack from
the instruction, set architecture all
the way up. I have
a stack of microprocessor manuals
in my library, you know,
and every once in a
while, I'll study a new
one and, and be fascinated
and interested in it, even
though that's not a really
like how often does actually
useful, I've done, not so
much at the same time.
I think so much of
learning is emotional engagement. So
if you said, well, before
we can let you do,
you know, web animations, first,
we have to study the
x86 instruction set manual. You're
just going to lose a
lot of people. So it
doesn't seem like that's going
to be a very effective
strategy. Definitely. Well, thank you
so much for spending time
with me today. I appreciate
it. Oh, Scott, it's a,
I heard your voice for
a, for many hours and
it's great to get a
chance to actually talk to
you in person. That's very
kind. So folks can check
out kentBeck@kentbeck.com and I'm going
to include links to everything
that we talked about from
Geno's paradox all the way
up, including test commit, revert
in limbo on the cheap,
in the show notes. I
encourage you to check those
out. This has been another
episode of Hanselminutes and we'll
see you again. .